# Homework Assignment - Week 1
__Name__: Adam Collado

## __Question 1:__

__A) Convert the following numbers to their decimal representation. Show your work.__

1. $10011011_2 =$

Working from most significant bit to least:

$=1*2^7 + 0*2^6 + 0*2^5 + 1*2^4 + 1*2^3 + 0*2^2 + 1*2^1 + 1*2^0$

$=128 + 0 + 0 + 16 + 8 + 0 + 2 + 1$

__Answer__: $=155$

2. $456_7=$

Working from most significant bit to least:

$=4*7^2 + 5*7^1 + 6*7^0$

$=196+ 35 + 6$

__Answer:__ $=237$

3. $38A_{16}=$

$=3*16^2 + 8*16^1 + 10*16^0$

$=768 + 128 + 10$

__Answer:__ $=906$

4. $2214_5$

$=2*5^3 + 2*5^2 + 1*5^1 + 4*5^0$

$=250 + 50  + 5  + 4$

__Answer:__ $=309$

__B) Convert the following numbers to their binary representations:__

1. $69_{10}$

First we find the most significant bit by finding the log of 69 and rounding down:

$log_2(69) = 6.108$

Rounded down we get $6$

$2^6 = 64$

$69-64=5$

$5-4=1$

$1-1=0$

|1|0|0|0|1|0|1|
|-|-|-|-|-|-|-|
|$2^6$|$2^5$|$2^4$|$2^3$|$2^2$|$2^1$|$2^0$|
|64|32|16|8|4|2|1|

__Answer:__ $69 = 1000101$

2. $485_{10}$

First we find the most significant bit by finding the log of 69 and rounding down:

$log_2(485) = 8.921$

Rounded down we get $8$

$2^8 = 256$

$485-256=229$

$229-128=101$

$101-64=37$

$37-32=5$

$5-4=1$

$1-1=0$


|1|1|1|1|0|0|1|0|1|
|-|-|-|-|-|-|-|-|-|
|$2^8$|$2^7$|$2^6$|$2^5$|$2^4$|$2^3$|$2^2$|$2^1$|$2^0$|
|256|128|64|32|16|8|4|2|1|

__Answer:__ $485=111100101$

3. $6D1A_{16}$

To get the binary equivalent, we have to get the binary for each digit, and then append each binary from the largest digit to the lowest.

|Hex|Bin|
|-|-|
|$6$|$0110$|
|$D$|$1101$|
|$1$|$0001$|
|$A$|$1010$|

__Answer:__ $6D1A=0110 1101 0001 1010$

__C) Convert the following numbers to their hexadecimal representation:__

1. $1101011_2$

To convert from binary to hexadecimal, we want to divide the binary into chunks of 4 bits. 

From there, we can convert the value into into a single digit represented in hexadecimal. Once completed for each chunk, we can then append the values from highest to lowest.


|Bin|Hex|
|-|-|
|$0110$|$6$|
|$1011$|$B$|

__Answer:__ $1101011=6B$

2. $895_{10}$

First we convert to binary by using log to find the most significant bit. Then once fully converted, we can convert from binary to hexadecimal.

$log_2(895) = 9.805$

Rounded down we get $9$

$2^9=512$

$895-512=383$

$383-256=127$

$127-64=63$

$63-32=31$

$31-16=15$

$15-8=7$

$7-4=3$

$3-2=1$

$1-1=0$

|0|0|1|1|0|1|1|1|1|1|1|1|
|-|-|-|-|-|-|-|-|-|-|-|-|
|$2^{11}$|$2^{10}$|$2^9$|$2^8$|$2^7$|$2^6$|$2^5$|$2^4$|$2^3$|$2^2$|$2^1$|$2^0$|
|2056|1024|512|256|128|64|32|16|8|4|2|1|

__Answer:__ $0011 0111 1111$


|Bin|Hex|
|-|-|
|$0011$|$3$|
|$0111$|$7$|
|$1111$|$F$|

__Answer:__ $895_{10}$ = $37F_{16}$ 

<div style="page-break-after: aLways;"></div>

## Question 2:

1. $7566_8 + 4515_8$

$7566_8$

$+4515_8$

__Answer:__ $=14303_8$

2. $10110011_2 + 1101_2$

$10110011$

|1|0|1|1|0|0|1|1|
|-|-|-|-|-|-|-|-|
|0|0|0|0|1|1|0|1|
|1|1|0|0|0|0|0|0|

__Answer:__ $=11000000$

3. $7A66_{16} + 45C5_{16}$

4. $3022_5 - 2433_5$

<div style="page-break-after: aLways;"></div>
\pagebreak

## __Question 3:__

__A. Convert the following numbers to their 8-bits two's complement representation.__

1. 124_10

$124 - 64 = 60$

$60-32=28$

$28-16=12$

$12-8=4$

$4-4=0$

|0|1|1|1|1|1|0|0|
|-|-|-|-|-|-|-|-|
|$2^7$|$2^6$|$2^5$|$2^4$|$2^3$|$2^2$|$2^1$|$2^0$|
|128|64|32|16|8|4|2|1|

__Answer:__ $=01111100$

2. $-124_10$

First we use the binary representation of 124 (we got that from the previous answer), and then perform 8 bit 2's complement to get the -124 in bits.


|0|1|1|1|1|1|0|0|
|-|-|-|-|-|-|-|-|
|1|0|0|0|0|1|0|0|

__Answer:__ $=10000100$


3. 109_10

$109-64=45$

$45-32=13$

$13-8=5$

$5-4=1$

$1-1=0$

|0|1|1|0|1|1|0|1|
|-|-|-|-|-|-|-|-|
|$2^7$|$2^6$|$2^5$|$2^4$|$2^3$|$2^2$|$2^1$|$2^0$|
|128|64|32|16|8|4|2|1|

__Answer:__ $=01101101$


4. -79_10

First we use the binary representation of 79 and then perform 8 bit 2's complement to get the -124 in bits.
\[
79-64=15
15-8=7
7-4=3
3-2=1
1-1=0
\]


|0|1|0|0|1|1|1|1|
|-|-|-|-|-|-|-|-|
|$2^7$|$2^6$|$2^5$|$2^4$|$2^3$|$2^2$|$2^1$|$2^0$|
|128|64|32|16|8|4|2|1|


|0|1|0|0|1|1|1|1|
|-|-|-|-|-|-|-|-|
|1|0|1|1|0|0|0|1|

__Answer:__ $10110001$

B. Convert the following numbers (represented as 8-bit two's complement) to their decimal representation.

1. $00011110_{8 bit 2's comp}$

This is a positive number, so we can just do a straight conversion to base 10 for our answer.

$$
\begin{array}{|c|c|c|c|c|c|c|c|}
    \hline
    0 & 0 & 0 & 1 & 1 & 1 & 1 & 0\\ \hline
    128 & 64 & 32 & 16 & 8 & 4 & 2 & 1\\ \hline
\end{array}
\\
$$

$$
16+8+4+2 = 30
$$

__Answer__: $30$

2. $11100110_{8 bit 2's comp}$

This is a negative number, so first we'll flip the bits and then convert to base 10 and negate it.

$$
\begin{array}{|c|c|c|c|c|c|c|c|}
    \hline
    1 & 1 & 1 & 0 & 0 & 1 & 1 & 0\\  \hline
    0 & 0 & 0 & 1 & 1 & 0 & 1 & 0\\ \hline
    128 & 64 & 32 & 16 & 8 & 4 & 2 & 1\\ \hline
\end{array}
\\
$$
$$
16 + 8 + 2 = 26
$$

__Answer__: $-26$

3. $00101101_{8 bit 2's comp}$

This is a positive number, so we can just do a straight conversion to base 10 for our answer.

$$
\begin{array}{|c|c|c|c|c|c|c|c|}
    \hline
    0 & 0 & 1 & 0 & 1 & 1 & 0 & 1\\ \hline
    128 & 64 & 32 & 16 & 8 & 4 & 2 & 1\\ \hline
\end{array}
\\
$$
$$
32 + 8 + 4 + 1 = 45
$$

__Answer__: $45$

4. $10011110_{8 bit 2's comp}$

This is a negative number, so first we'll flip the bits and then convert to base 10 and negate it.

$$
\begin{array}{|c|c|c|c|c|c|c|c|}
    \hline
    1 & 0 & 0 & 1 & 1 & 1 & 1 & 0\\  \hline
    0 & 1 & 1 & 0 & 0 & 0 & 1 & 0\\ \hline
    128 & 64 & 32 & 16 & 8 & 4 & 2 & 1\\ \hline
\end{array}
\\
$$
$$
64 + 32 + 4 = 98
$$

__Answer:__: $-98$

<div style="page-break-after: aLways;"></div>
\pagebreak

## Question 4:
### Exercise 1.2.4
#### B) $\neg (p \lor q)$

$$
\begin{array}{|c|c|c|c|}
    \hline
    p & q & p \lor q & \neg (p \lor q)\\ \hline\hline
    T & T & T & F\\ \hline
    T & F & T & F\\ \hline
    F & T & T & F\\ \hline
    F & F & F & T\\ \hline
\end{array}
$$

#### C) $r \lor (p \land \neg q)$

$$
\begin{array}{|ccc|c|c|c|}
    \hline
    r & p & q & \neg q & p \land \neg q & r \lor (p \land \neg q)\\ \hline\hline
    T & T & T & F & F & T \\ \hline
    T & T & F & T & T & T \\ \hline
    T & F & T & F & F & T \\ \hline
    T & F & F & T & F & T \\ \hline
    F & T & T & F & F & F \\ \hline
    F & T & F & T & T & T \\ \hline
    F & F & T & F & F & F \\ \hline
    F & F & F & T & F & F \\ \hline
\end{array}
$$

### Exercise 1.3.4
### B) $(p \rightarrow q) \rightarrow (q \rightarrow p)$
### D) $(p \leftrightarrow q) \oplus (p \leftrightarrow \neg q)$


\pagebreak

## Question 5:

### Exercise 1.2.7

#### B) The applicant must present at least two of the following forms of identification: birth certificate, driver's license, marriage license.

$$(B \land D) \lor (B \land M) \lor (D \land M)$$

#### C Applicant must present either a birth certificate or both a driver's license and a marriage license.

$$B \lor (D \land M)$$

### Exercise 1.3.7

#### B) A person can park in the school parking lot if they are a senior or at least seventeen years of age

$$(s \lor y) \rightarrow p$$

#### C) Being 17 years of age is necessary condition for being able to park in the school parking lot.

$$p \rightarrow y$$

#### D) A person can park in the school parking lot if and only if the person is a senior and at least 17 years of age.

$p \leftrightarrow (s \land y)$

#### E) Being able to park in the school parking lot implies that the person is either a senior or at least 17 years old.

$p \rightarrow (s \lor y)$

### Exercise 1.3.9

#### C) The applicant can enroll in the course only if the applicant has a parental permission.

$c \rightarrow p$

#### D) Having parental permission is a necessary condition for enrolling in the course.

$c \rightarrow p$

<div style="page-break-after: aLways;"></div>
\pagebreak

## Question 6:

### Exercise 1.3.6

#### B) _Maintaining a B average is necessary for Joe to be eligible for the honors program._

If Joe is eligible for the honors program, then he is maintaining a B average.
#### C) _Rajiv can go on the roller coaster only if he is at least four feet tall._

If Rajiv can go on the roller  coaster, then he is at least four feet tall.
#### D) _Rajiv can go on the roller coaster if he is at least four feet tall_.

If Rajiv is at least four feet tall, then he can go on the roller coaster.

### Exercise 1.3.10
The variable p is true, q is false, and the truth value for variable r is unknown. Indicate whether the truth value of each logical expression is true, false, or unknown.

#### C) $(p \lor r) \leftrightarrow (q \land r)$

__The value of this expression is False.__

$(p \lor r)$ will always be true since $p$ is true, and $or$ operations only require one proposition to be true. 

$(q \land r)$ will always be false since $q$ is false, and the $and$ operation requires both propositions to be true to evaluate to true.
#### D) $(p \land r) \leftrightarrow (q \land r)$
__The value for this expression is Unknown__.

While we know $(q \land r)$ will always evaluate to false since $q$ is always false, we cannot know what $(p \land r)$ will evaluate to as it requires both propositions to have be true, and $r$ is unknown. Since $(p \land r)$ can't be evaluated, then the full statement will be unknown as it requires both logical values to match, and the left statement will always be unknown.

#### E) $p \rightarrow (r \lor q)$
__The value for this expression is Unknown__.

While we know that $p$ is true, $(r \lor q)$ cannot be evaluated since $r$ is unknown and we cannot solve the expression with just the knowledge of $q$. Since $(r \lor q)$ can't be resolved, we cannot evaluate the expression as the conditional operator requires knowing the value of the conclusion if the hypothesis is shown as true.

#### F) $(p \land q) \rightarrow r$
__The value of this expression is True__.

Since we know $p$ is true and $q$ is false, we can evaluate the statement $(p \land q)$ as false. With that knowledge in hand, we can resolve the expression since we know that the conditional operator will always resolve to true if the hypothesis is shown to be false.


<div style="page-break-after: aLways;"></div>
\pagebreak

## Question 7:

### Exercise 1.4.5

#### B)
If Sally did not get the job, then she was late for her interview or did not update her resume.
$$\neg j \rightarrow (l \lor \neg r)$$

If Sally updated her resume and did not get the job, then she was late for her interview.
$$(r \land \neg l) \rightarrow j$$

$$
\begin{array}{|c|c|c|c|c|}
    \hline
    j & l & r &\neg j \rightarrow (l \lor \neg r) & (r \land \neg l) \rightarrow j  \\ \hline\hline
    T & T & T & T & T\\ \hline
    T & T & F & T & T\\ \hline
    T & F & T & T & T\\ \hline
    T & F & F & T & T\\ \hline
    F & T & T & T & T\\ \hline
    F & T & F & T & T\\ \hline
    F & F & T & F & F\\ \hline
    F & F & F & T & T\\ \hline
\end{array}
$$

__The statements are logically equivalent.__
#### C)
If Sally got the job then she was not late for her interview.
$$j \rightarrow \neg l$$
If Sally did not get the job, then she was late for her interview.
$$\neg j \rightarrow l$$

$$
\begin{array}{|c|c|c|c|}
    \hline
    j & l & j \rightarrow \neg l &\neg j \rightarrow l  \\ \hline\hline
    T & T & F & T\\ \hline
    T & F & T & T\\ \hline
    F & T & T & T\\ \hline
    F & F & T & F\\ \hline
\end{array}
$$

__The statement are NOT logically equivalent__
#### D)
If Sally updated her resume or she was not late for her interview, then she got the job.
$$(r \lor \neg l) \rightarrow j$$
If Sally got the job, then she updated her resume and was not late for her interview.
$$j \rightarrow (r \land \neg l)$$
$$
\begin{array}{|c|c|c|c|c|}
    \hline
    j & l & r &(r \lor \neg l) \rightarrow j &j \rightarrow (r \land \neg l)   \\ \hline\hline
    T & T & T & T & F\\ \hline
    T & T & F & T & F\\ \hline
    T & F & T & T & T\\ \hline
    T & F & F & T & F\\ \hline
    F & T & T & F & T\\ \hline
    F & T & F & F & T\\ \hline
    F & F & T & T & T\\ \hline
    F & F & F & F & T\\ \hline
\end{array}
$$

__The statement are NOT logically equivalent__

<div style="page-break-after: aLways;"></div>
\pagebreak

## Question 8:

### Exercise 1.5.2

#### C) $(p \rightarrow q) \land (p \rightarrow r) \equiv p \rightarrow (q \land r)$

$$
(p \rightarrow q) \land (p \rightarrow r)
\\
(\neg p \lor q) \land (\neg p \lor r) \longrightarrow \text{Conditional Identity}
\\
\neg p \lor (q \land r) \longrightarrow \text{Distributive Law}
\\
p \rightarrow (q \land r) \longrightarrow \text{Conditional Identity}
$$

#### F) $\neg(p \lor (\neg p \land q)) \equiv \neg p \land \neg q$

$$
\neg(p \lor (\neg p \land q))
\\
\neg p \land \neg (\neg p \land q) \longrightarrow \text{De Morgan's Law}
\\
\neg p \land (\neg \neg p \lor \neg q) \longrightarrow \text{De Morgan's Law}
\\
\neg p \land (p \lor \neg q) \longrightarrow \text{Double Negation}
\\
(\neg p \land p) \lor (\neg p \land \neg q) \longrightarrow \text{Distributive Law}
\\
F \lor (\neg p \land \neg q) \longrightarrow \text{Complement Law}
\\
\neg p \land \neg q \longrightarrow \text{Identity Law}
$$
#### I) $(p \land q) \rightarrow r \equiv (p \land \neg r) \rightarrow \neg q$

$$
(p \land q) \rightarrow r
\\
\neg (p \land q) \lor r \longrightarrow \text{Conditional Identity}
\\
(\neg p \lor \neg q) \lor r \longrightarrow \text{De Morgan's Law}
\\
(\neg p \lor r) \lor \neg q \longrightarrow \text{Associative Law}
\\
\neg \neg (\neg p \lor r) \lor \neg q \longrightarrow \text{Double Negation}
\\
\neg (\neg p \lor r) \rightarrow \neg q \longrightarrow \text{Conditional Identity}
\\
(\neg \neg p \land \neg r) \rightarrow \neg q \longrightarrow \text{De Morgan's Law}
\\
(p \land \neg r) \rightarrow \neg q \longrightarrow \text{Double Negation}
$$

### Exercise 1.5.3

#### C) $\neg r \lor (\neg r \rightarrow p)$
$$
\neg r \lor (\neg r \rightarrow p) \equiv T \\
\neg r \lor (\neg \neg r \lor p) \longrightarrow \text{Conditional Identity} \\
\neg r \lor (r \lor p) \longrightarrow \text{Double Negation} \\
(\neg r \lor r) \lor p \longrightarrow \text {Associative Law} \\
T \lor p \longrightarrow \text{Complement Law}\\
T \longrightarrow \text{Domination Law}
$$
#### D) $\neg (p \rightarrow q) \rightarrow \neg q$
$$
\neg (p \rightarrow q) \rightarrow \neg q \equiv T \\
\neg \neg (p \rightarrow q) \lor \neg q \longrightarrow \text{Conditional Identity} \\
(p \rightarrow q) \lor \neg q \longrightarrow \text{Double Negation} \\
(\neg p \lor q) \lor \neg q \longrightarrow \text{Conditional Identity} \\
\neg p \lor (q \lor \neg q) \longrightarrow \text{Associative Law} \\
\neg p \lor T \longrightarrow \text{Complement Law} \\
T \longrightarrow \text{Domination Law}
$$
<div style="page-break-after: aLways;"></div>
\pagebreak

## Question 9:

### Exercise 1.6.3
#### C) There is a number that is equal to its square.
$$
\exists x (x = x^2)
$$
#### D) Every number is less than or equal to its square plus 1.
$$
\forall x (x <= x^2+1)
$$
### Exercise 1.7.4
#### B) Everyone was well and went to work yesterday.

$$
\forall x (\neg S(x) \land W(x))
$$
#### C) Everyone who was sick yesterday did not go to work.
$$
\forall x (S(x) \rightarrow \neg W(x))
$$
#### D) Yesterday someone was sick and went to work.
$$
\exists x (S(x) \land W(x))
$$

<div style="page-break-after: aLways;"></div>
\pagebreak

## Question 10:
### Exercise 1.7.9

#### C) $\exists x ((x = c) \rightarrow P(x))$
This is __False__.
#### D) $\exists x (Q(x) \land R(x))$
This is __True__.
#### E) $Q(a) \land P(d)$
This is __True__.
#### F) $\forall x ((x \neq b) \rightarrow Q(x))$
This is __True__.
#### G) $\forall x (P(x) \lor R(x))$
This is __False__.
#### H) $\forall x (R(x) \rightarrow P(x))$
This is __True__.
#### I) $\exists x (Q(x) \lor R(x))$
This is __True__.

### Exercise 1.9.2

#### B) $\exists x \forall y Q(x, y)$
If $x=2$ then all $y$ values will evaluate to true. 

Therefore the statement is __True__.
#### C) $\exists y \forall x P(x, y)$
If $y=1$ then all $x$ values will evaluate to true.

Therefore, the statement is __True__.
#### D) $\exists x \exists y S(x, y)$
All values in the domain S(x, y) are false, therefore no combination can evaluate to true.

Therefore, the statement is __False__.
#### E) $\forall x \exists y Q(x, y)$
There is no column with rows that has values that all evaluate to true.

Therefore, the statement is __False__.

#### F) $\forall x \exists y P(x, y)$
There is at least one column where all rows evaluate to true.

Therefore, the statement is __True__.
#### G) $\forall x \forall y P(x, y)$
There are several values for $x$ and $y$ that will evaluate to false. For instance, if $x=1$ and $y=2$, this would be false.

Therefore, the statement is __False__.


#### H) $\exists x \exists y Q(x, y)$
There are several values for $x$ and $y$ that will evaluate to true. For instance, if $x=2$ and $y=1$, this would be true.

Therefore. the statement is __True__.
#### I) $\forall x \forall y \neg S(x, y)$
All values in this false. By negating the statement, this makes all evaluations of $x$ and $y$ values as true.

Therefore, the statement is __True__.

<div style="page-break-after: aLways;"></div>
\pagebreak

## Question 11:

### Exercise 1.10.4
#### C) There are two numbers whose sum is equal to their product.

$$
\exists x \exists y (x+y = x*y)
$$
#### D) The ratio of every two positive numbers is also positive.
$$
\forall x \forall y (((x > 0) \land (y  > 0)) \rightarrow (x / y > 0))
$$
#### E) The reciprocal of every positive number less than one is greater than one.
$$
\forall x (((x > 0) \land (x < 1)) \rightarrow (1/x > 1))
$$
#### F) There is no smallest number.
$$
\neg \exists x \forall y (x \leq y
$$
#### G) Every number other than 0 has a multiplicative inverse.
$$
\forall x ((x*(1/x)=1) \land (x \neg 0))
$$
### Exercise 1.10.7
#### C) There is at least one new employee who missed the deadline
$$
\exists x \forall y (N(x) \land ((x \geq 3) \rightarrow D(y)))
$$
#### D) Sam knows the phone number of everyone who missed the deadline
$$
\forall x (P(Sam, x) \rightarrow D(x))
$$
#### E) There is a new employee who knows everyone's phone number
$$
\exists x \forall y (
$$
#### F) Exactly one new employee missed the deadline.
### Exercise 1.10.10
#### C) Every student has taken at least one class other than Math 101.
#### D) There is a student who has taken every math class other than Math 101.
#### E) Everyone other than Sam has taken at least two different math classes.
#### F) Sam has taken exactly two math classes.

<div style="page-break-after: aLways;"></div>
\pagebreak

## Question 12:
### Exercise 1.8.2
#### B) Every patient was given the medication or the placebo or both.
$$
\forall x (D(x) \lor P(x) )\\
\text{Negation:} \neg \forall x (D(x) \lor P(x) )\\
\text{De Morgan's Law:} \exists x (\neg D(x) \land \neg P(x))\\
\text{There is a patient who was not given the medication and was not given the placebo}

$$
#### C) There is a patient who took the medication and had migraines.
$$
\exists x (P(x) \land M(x)) \\
\text{Negation:} \neg \exists x (P(x) \land M(x)) \\
\text{De Morgan's Law:}  \forall x (\neg D(x) \lor \neg P(x))\\
\text{Every patient did not take the medicine or the placebo.}
$$

#### D) Every patient who took the placebo had migraines.
$$
\forall x (P(x) \rightarrow M(x))\\
\text{Negation} \neg \forall x (P(x) \rightarrow M(x))\\
\text{De Morgan's Law:} \exists x (P(x) \land \neg M(x))\\
\text{There is a patient who took the placebo and did not have migraines.}
$$
#### E) There is a patient who had migraines and was given the placebo.
$$
\exists x (M(x) \land P(x))\\
\text{Negation} \neg \exists x (M(x) \land P(x))\\
\text{De Morgan's Law:} \forall x (\neg M(x) \lor \neg P(x))\\
\text{Every patient did not have migraines or was not given the placebo.}
$$
### Exercise 1.9.4
#### C) $\exists x \forall y (P(x, y) \rightarrow Q(x, y))$
$$
\exists x \forall y (\neg P(x, y) \lor Q(x, y))  \\
\neg \forall x \exists y (\neg P(x, y) \lor Q(x, y))  \\
\forall x \neg \exists y (\neg P(x, y) \lor Q(x, y))  \\
\forall x \exists y \neg (\neg P(x, y) \lor Q(x, y))  \\
\forall x \exists y (\neg \neg P(x, y) \land \neg Q(x, y)) \\
\forall x \exists y (P(x, y) \land \neg Q(x, y))
$$
#### D) $\exists x \forall y (P(x, y) \leftrightarrow P(y, x))$
$$
\exists x \forall y ((P(x, y) \rightarrow P(x, y)) \land (P(x, y) \rightarrow P(x, y))) \text{}\\
\exists x \forall y ((\neg P(x, y) \lor P(x, y)) \land (\neg P(x, y) \lor P(x, y))) \text{}\\
\neg \forall x \exists y ((\neg P(x, y) \lor P(x, y)) \land (\neg P(x, y) \lor P(x, y))) \text{}\\
\forall x \neg \exists y ((\neg P(x, y) \lor P(x, y)) \land (\neg P(x, y) \lor P(x, y))) \text{}\\
\forall x \exists y \neg ((\neg P(x, y) \lor P(x, y)) \land (\neg P(x, y) \lor P(x, y))) \text{}\\
\forall x \exists y (\neg (\neg P(x, y) \lor P(x, y)) \lor \neg (\neg P(x, y) \lor P(x, y))) \text{}\\
\forall x \exists y ((\neg \neg P(x, y) \land \neg P(x, y)) \lor (\neg \neg P(x, y) \land \neg P(x, y))) \text{}\\
\forall x \exists y ((P(x, y) \land \neg P(x, y)) \lor (P(x, y) \land \neg P(x, y))) \text{}\\
$$
#### E) $\exists x \exists y P(x, y) \lor \forall x \forall y Q(x, y)$
$$
\neg \forall x \forall y P(x, y) \lor \neg \exists x \exists y Q(x, y)\\
\forall x \neg \forall y P(x, y) \lor \exists x \neg \exists y Q(x, y)\\
\forall x \forall y \neg P(x, y) \land \exists x \exists y \neg Q(x, y)
$$